# Access Control Concepts
Access controls involves limiting what `objects` can be available to what
`subjects` according to what `rules`.

The whole point is, who can access what and what can they do with it.

## Defense in Depth
Defense in depth describes an information security strategy that integrates people, technology and operations capabilities to establish variable barriers across multiple layers and missions of the organization. It applies multiple countermeasures in a layered fashion to fulfill security objectives. Defense in depth should be implemented to prevent or deter a cyberattack, but it cannot guarantee that an attack will not occur.
!(figure one)[./defense_in_depth.svg]

## Principle of Least Privilege
`Principle of Least Privilege` is a standard of permitting only 
permissions needed by users or programs to fulfill their function. 
Users are provided access only to the systems and programs they need to 
perform their specific job or tasks. 

Ex. An accountant probably doesnt 
need user create/modify permissions, so don't give the accountant user 
create/modify permissions.

## Segregation of Duties
A core element of authorization is the principle of segregation of duties (also known as separation of duties). Segregation of duties is based on the security practice that no one person should control an entire high-risk transaction from start to finish. Segregation of duties breaks the transaction into separate parts and requires a different person to execute each part of the transaction. For example, an employee may submit an invoice for payment to a vendor (or for reimbursement to themselves), but it must be approved by a manager prior to payment; in another instance, almost anyone may submit a proposal for a change to a system configuration, but the request must go through technical and management review and gain approval, before it can be implemented.

## Examples of when an account's permissions should change
1. The account is for a new employee
2. The employee is changing positions/departments
3. The employee no longer works for the company

## Terminology
> **Security Control** *`defn.`* Countermeasure(s) designed to perserve the `CIA` triad

> **Subject** *`defn.`* Any entity that requests access to an asset. (users, process, client or server)

> **Object** *`defn.`* Anything a `subject` attempts to access

> **Rules** *`defn.`* A list of permissions, which dictate if a `subject` can or can not have an `object`. The `rules` also dictate what the `subject` can do with the `object`

> **Privileged accounts** *`defn.`* those with permissions beyond those of normal users, such as managers and administrators

> **Two person integrity** *`defn.`* Security strategy that requires at least two people to be in an area together

