# Business Continuity
The *business continuity plan*(`BCP`) enables the business to continue
operating throughout a crisis.

The `BCP` is the ability to adapt and respond to risks, as well as 
opportunities, in order to maintain continuous business operations.

There are three primary aspects of providing *business continuity* for 
key applications and processes:

* High availability is the capability to and processes that provide access to applications regardless of local failures, whether these failures are in the business processes, in the physical facilities, or in the IT hardware or software.
* Continuous operations is the capability to keep things running when everything is working properly; where you do not have to take applications down merely to do scheduled backups or planned maintenance.
* Disaster Recovery is the capability to recover a data center at a different site if a disaster destroys the primary site or otherwise renders it inoperable. The characteristics of a disaster recovery solution are that processing resumes at a different site and on different hardware.

The intent of a `BCP` is to sustain business operations while recovering
from a significant disruption. An event has created a disturbance in the
environment, and now you need to know how to maintain the business.

## *Concepts/Components* of a `BCP`
* The redbook --- 
* Phone tree --- As the name suggests, a tree of phones. This is so if one person is not available, there is always someone else to call
* Immediate response **procedures** and **checklists**
* Notification systems and call trees for alerting personnel that the *BCP* is being enacted
* How/when to enact the plan
* Contact numbers for critical members of the supply chain (vendors, customers, possible external emergency providers, third-party partners)

A `BCP` is the proactive development of procedures to restore operations
after or other disruptions to the organization. The main goal of a `BCP`
is to return a organization to normal operations.

## Terminology
> **Business Impact analysis** *`defn.`* An analysis of an information system’s requirements, functions, and interdependencies used to characterize system contingency requirements and priorities in the event of a significant disruption.

