# Governance Elements
An organization must follow certian "things" set by the Government in 
order to operate.

These "things" are:
* Regulations and Laws --- Laws that carry fines if not followed
* Standards --- A framework to introduce policies and procedures
* Policies --- Rules set by organizational governance
* Procedure --- Detailed steps to complete a task

Goverance happens in this order:
Regulation ---> Standard ---> Policy ---> Procedure

## Regulation and Laws
Regulations and associated fines and penalties can be imposed by 
governments at the national, regional or local level. Because 
regulations and laws can be imposed and enforced differently in 
different parts of the world, here are a few examples to connect the 
concepts to actual regulations.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 
is an example of a law that governs the use of protected health 
information (PHI) in the United States. Violation of the HIPAA rule 
carries the possibility of fines and/or imprisonment for both 
individuals and companies.

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was enacted by the 
European Union (EU) to control use of Personally Identifiable 
Information (PII) of its citizens and those in the EU. It includes 
provisions that apply financial penalties to companies who handle data 
of EU citizens and those living in the EU even if the company does not 
have a physical presence in the EU, giving this regulation an 
international reach.

Finally, it is common to be subject to regulation on several levels. 
Multinational organizations are subject to regulations in more than one 
nation in addition to multiple regions and municipalities. Organizations
need to consider the regulations that apply to their business at all 
levels—national, regional and local—and ensure they are compliant with 
the most restrictive regulation.

## Standards
Organizations use multiple standards as part of their information 
systems security programs, both as compliance documents and as 
advisories or guidelines. Standards cover a broad range of issues and 
ideas and may provide assurance that an organization is operating with 
policies and procedures that support regulations and are widely accepted 
best practices.

The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) develops and 
publishes international standards on a variety of technical subjects, 
including information systems and information security, as well as 
encryption standards. ISO solicits input from the international 
community of experts to provide input on its standards prior to 
publishing. Documents outlining ISO standards may be purchased online.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is a United 
States government agency under the Department of Commerce and publishes 
a variety of technical standards in addition to information technology 
and information security standards. Many of the standards issued by NIST 
are requirements for U.S. government agencies and are considered 
recommended standards by industries worldwide. NIST standards solicit 
and integrate input from industry and are free to download from the NIST 
website.

The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) provides standards in
communication protocols that ensure all computers can connect with each 
other across borders, even when the operators do not speak the same 
language.

The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) also sets 
standards for telecommunications, computer engineering and similar 
disciplines.

## Policies
Policy is informed by applicable law(s) and specifies which standards 
and guidelines the organization will follow. Policy is broad, but not 
detailed; it establishes context and sets out strategic direction and 
priorities. Governance policies are used to moderate and control 
decision-making, to ensure compliance when necessary and to guide the 
creation and implementation of other policies.

Policies are often written at many levels across the organization. 
High-level governance policies are used by senior executives to shape 
and control decision-making processes. Other high-level policies direct 
the behavior and activity of the entire organization as it moves toward 
specific or general goals and objectives. Functional areas such as 
human resources management, finance and accounting, and security and 
asset protection usually have their own sets of policies. Whether 
imposed by laws and regulations or by contracts, the need for 
compliance might also require the development of specific high-level 
policies that are documented and assessed for their effective use by 
the organization.

Policies are implemented, or carried out, by people; for that, someone 
must expand the policies from statements of intent and direction into 
step-by-step instructions, or procedures.

## Procedures
Procedures define the explicit, repeatable activities necessary to 
accomplish a specific task or set of tasks. They provide supporting 
data, decision criteria or other explicit knowledge needed to perform 
each task. Procedures can address one-time or infrequent actions or 
common, regular occurrences. In addition, procedures establish the 
measurement criteria and methods to use to determine whether a task has 
been successfully completed. Properly documenting procedures and 
training personnel on how to locate and follow them is necessary for 
deriving the maximum organizational benefits from procedures.

