# Risk Management Process
> **Risk** *`defn.`* How much an entity is threatened by a particular situation
> 1. The imparts the situation has on the entity
> 2. The likelihood of the situation occurring

## Risk Identification
Terminology
* Asset --- Something needing protection
* Vulnerability --- A gap or weakness in a system
* Threat --- Something or someone aiming to exploit a vulnerability

### Threats
#### Terminology
> **Threat actor** *`defn.`* Any person or thing posing a threat
> **Threat vector** *`defn.`* The way a threat actor attacks something
Organizations typically put themselves in the eyes of a threat actor
to find the vunlnerabilities in their system.

### Vulnerabilities


The point of this all is the identify risk and to communicate it clearly
to reduce the likelihood of threat actors stealing critical information

## Risk Assessment
> **Risk Assessment** *`defn.`* The process of identifying, estimating 
> and prioritizing risks to an organization's operations

Ex. 
A common risk assessment activity identifies the risk of fire to a 
building. While there are many ways to mitigate that risk, the primary 
goal of a risk assessment is to estimate and prioritize. For example, 
fire alarms are the lowest cost and can alert personnel to evacuate and 
reduce the risk of personal injury, but they won’t keep a fire from 
spreading or causing more damage. Sprinkler systems won’t prevent a 
fire but can minimize the amount of damage done. However, while 
sprinklers in a data center limit the fire’s spread, it is likely they 
will destroy all the systems and data on them. A gas-based system may 
be the best solution to protect the systems, but it might be 
cost-prohibitive. A risk assessment can prioritize these items for 
management to determine the method of mitigation that best suits the 
assets being protected.

## Risk Treatment
> **Risk Treatment** *`defn.`* Deciding the best actions to take 
> regarding the identified and prioritized risk.

The options for responding/treating risk are:
* Avoidance
* Acceptance
* Mitigation
* Transfer

> **Risk Avoidance** *`defn.`* The decision to attempt to eliminate the
> risk entirely

> **Risk Acceptance** *`defn.`* To take no action regarding a risk

> **Risk Mitigation** *`defn.`* To take actions to prevent or reduce the
> possibility of a risk event or its impact.

> **Risk Transfer** *`defn.`* The practice of passing the risk to
> another party. This is essentially an insurance policy.

## Risk Priorities
Risks can be analyzed through `qualitative risk analysis` and/or 
`quantitative risk analysis`.

> **Qualitative risk analysis** *`defn.`*

> **Quantitative risk analysis** *`defn.`*

A common method of prioritizing risk is to use a `risk matrix`.
The `risk matrix` takes the impact of a risk as the x-axis and the 
likelihood of occurrence of a risk as y-axis.
> For a visual of a `risk matrix` see *figure one*.

!(figure one)[./risk-managment.svg]
*figure one*

## Risk tolerance
How much risk are they willing to take? Does management welcome risk 
or want to avoid it? The level of risk tolerance varies across 
organizations, and even internally: Different departments may have 
different attitudes toward what is acceptable or unacceptable risk.

Understanding the organization and senior management’s attitude toward 
risk is usually the starting point for getting management to take 
action regarding risks.

Executive management and/or the Board of Directors determines what is 
an acceptable level of risk for the organization. Security 
professionals aim to maintain the levels of risk within management’s 
limit of risk tolerance.

>**Risk tolerance** *`defn.`* The level of risk an entity is willing 
> to assume in order to achieve a potential desired result

