# Logical Controls
Logical access controls are electronic methods that limit someone from 
getting access to systems, and sometimes even to tangible assets or 
areas. Types of logical access controls include: 
* Passwords
* Biometrics (implemented on a system, such as a smartphone or laptop)
* Badge/token readers connected to a system

NOTE: Logical controls can(and should) still be enforced even is a 
person already has physical access

## Discretionary Access Control (DAC)
Discretionary access control (DAC) is a specific type of access control policy that is enforced over all subjects and objects in an information system. In DAC, the policy specifies that a subject who has been granted access to information can do one or more of the following:

* Pass the information to other subjects or objects 
* Grant its privileges to other subjects 
* Change security attributes on subjects, objects, information systems or system components 
* Choose the security attributes to be associated with newly created or revised objects; and/or 
* Change the rules governing access control; mandatory access controls restrict this capability

Most information systems in the world are DAC systems. In a DAC system, a user who has access to a file is usually able to share that file with or pass it to someone else. This grants the user almost the same level of access as the original owner of the file. Rule-based access control systems are usually a form of DAC.

## Mandator Access Control (MAC)
A mandatory access control (MAC) policy is one that is uniformly 
enforced across all subjects and objects within the boundary of an 
information system. In simplest terms, this means that only properly 
designated security administrators, as trusted subjects, can modify any 
of the security rules that are established for subjects and objects 
within the system. This also means that for all subjects defined by the 
organization (that is, known to its integrated identity management and 
access control system), the organization assigns a subset of total 
privileges for a subset of objects, such that the subject is 
constrained from doing any of the following:

* Passing the information to unauthorized subjects or objects 
* Granting its privileges to other subjects 
* Changing one or more security attributes on subjects, objects, the information system or system components 
* Choosing the security attributes to be associated with newly created or modified objects 
* Changing the rules governing access control 

## Difference between a DAC and a MAC
Although `MAC` sounds very similar to `DAC`, the primary difference is 
who can control access. With `MAC`, it is mandatory for security 
administrators to assign access rights or permissions; with `DAC`, it is
up to the object owner’s discretion.

AKA `DAC` is user based and `MAC` is clearance based

## Role Based Access Control (RBAC)
As the name suggests, permissions of a user is based on that users 
`role`.

## Terminology
> **Discretionary access control** *`defn.`* A certain amount of access control is left to the discretion of the object’s owner, or anyone else who is authorized to control the object’s access. The owner can determine who should have access rights to an object and what those rights should be.

